# animal-reports-project
Project 1 for Lede with NYC animal data
# Deer and other NYC Animals
## Goals
My goal was to find out where people are spotting deer in New York City, along with other wild animals. I wanted to know where these deer were hanging out and what other perhaps surprising animals New Yorkers saw and where specifically they found be found, with the hope of creating a fun map where people can see where unlikely animals are spotted in NYC.
## Findings
The NYC Department of Parks and Recreation has a [Link](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Environment/Urban-Park-Ranger-Animal-Condition-Response/fuhs-xmg2/about_data) delightful dataset on NYC Open Data with information about "requests for animal assistance, relocation, and/or rescue completed by the Urban Park Rangers." According to the data dictionary, "Requests are typically made by other Parks staff, park visitors making requests in person, and by calls to 311. Each record represents a single request." This dataset had a wealth of information about where people were reporting various animals. There are more than 8,000 individual animals in the dataset, which spans from May 2018 to June 2024. It also contains some limited location information and information about what happened to the request (what did the ranger have to do, essentially) and the condition of the animal. NYC Open Data also has another dataset with information about 311 requests for wildlife, but that dataset didn't end up being that useful to me. 
## Data analysis
Most of my work was organizing and cleaning the data using pandas. Fortunately, it was a pretty clean dataset. I attempted to combine an additional NYC dataset of 311 calls to add additional location information (most crucially, coordinates), but there wasn’t enough overlap (such as an ID number) that I felt I could confidently match entries between the two. The NYC Parks spokesperson I reached out to did not respond to a query about a dataset with more complete information, sadly. I filtered and sorted the data I did have to try to answer some questions, including:
1) What animals are people seeing and reporting to urban rangers?
2) Where are these animals (which properties?)
3) Where are the deer, specifically? What sort of shape are they in?
4) What animal was most common in each borough?
## Skills and approaches
 I used pandas for the data analysis, even though I could’ve done most things way faster in Excel or Google Sheets, but it was good practice with using pandas. I also did some  geocoding and made maps and charts using pandas and Datawrapper. The process of trying and failing different methods was great practice. This was my first time creating a website with HTML/CSS, so I relied heavily on templates. 
 ## If I had more time
This deer map is incomplete, because as far as I can tell some northern portions of city parks (maybe not technically in the Bronx) are not showing up on the boroughs map of NYC that Datawrapper provides. I tried to play around with a NYC Parks map, but it was too large for Datawrapper to accept, even though I tried to simplify it in mapshaper. Ideally I would use another software to try to get a more complete underlying map and determine a better way to map coordinates. The CSS/HTML on the site is a bit lazy, so ideally I would’ve spent more time on the design aspects of it, maybe adding more photos. The map itself could be more beautiful. I also would've liked to create a fun illustration for the most common animal for each borough (at least as fun as a symbol for a dead fish can be).
